# Press Characterization

After optimization, the press was ready for characterization. The first step in the characterization was printing P2P targets for determining curves for the G7 calibration technique. The target for this press run can be seen in Figure 6. Since gray balance is a function of density and dot gain, Neutral Print Density Curves are used to replace TVI control. G7 is a form of Near Neutral Calibration, therefore, an individual PressSync curve is applied to each separation to achieve gray balance in the highlight, midtone, and shadow control points. Six P2P targets were read with an i1iO with 2° observer angle and D50 illuminant. The measurement data was brought into the IDEALink Curve 2 to evaluate the output Neutral Print Density Curves. The P2P targets with expanded gamut separations were measured with an i1iO and the measurement data was brought into PressSync where the TVI curves were derived from Linear ΔE – Paper.

The second step of the characterization was creating a profile with the NPDC applied. FIRST recommends the industry standard, IT8.7/4 characterization target. The randomized layout was chosen for the characterization to ensure any errors introduced from press anomalies were randomized with respect to CIELAB color space. Due to limited print area, two charts were placed on the layout. Four variations of the IT8.7/4 target were printed. The CMYK separations were printed first, then the Cyan printing deck was taken off of impression and the Orange station was printed in its place. This was repeated for each of the primary inks and their opposing complimentary color. Figure 7 shows each variation of the IT8.7/4. Six samples were pulled from each variation throughout the run and measured in with i1 Profiler. The CGATS data was averaged, smoothed, and synchronized back to our aims.

The smoothed and synchronized CGATS data from the IT8.7/4 targets were brought into Esko’s Color Engine Pilot to create an Equinox profile and a traditional four-color press profile. These profiles were used to determine the separation values for a best match when reproducing a Pantone color using both a four-color ink set and a seven- color ink set. For example, Figure 8 shows the separations required to reproduce Pantone 165 when using either a four- color ink set or a seven-color ink set. Each of the components used to reproduce this color will be tested for its effect on the color stability with press variations.