# Color Reproduction <Badge text="Copied" type="warning"/>

## From TAGA

In photomechanical reproduction, the original artwork to be reproduced can consist of any type of colored pigment. The challenge then becomes to reproduce it with a limited number of inks, typically 3 to 4 printing inks. The current systems take advantage of the human visual system, which is trichromatic. (Chen, 2008) Since the human eye is sensitive to red, green, and blue light, it is expected that if the reproduction reflects the same amount of red, green, and blue light then the color will match the original. There are two color-mixing approaches to accomplish this, either additive or subtractive. The additive color reproduction process would require printing inks that reflect red, green, and blue light proportional to the original on a black substrate. However, these inks do not cooperate when superimposed. Instead, the subtractive color reproduction approach can be taken. Light that is not reflected off of an object is absorbed. With this understanding, we can replicate the amount of light absorbed in order to match the original. In subtractive color reproduction, the printed ink acts as a filter, modifying the amount of light that reflects off of the paper.

::: tip Similar paragraph found in TXT
In photomechanical reproduction, the original to be reproduced will contain specific colored pigments. This highlights the color reproduction problem, which is to reproduce a full-color image by using limited printing inks (usually four process colors) (Yule, 1967). An important concept must be considered in order to understand how color reproduction works. ―Color is not created by ink or dye on paper. Instead, ink modifies the amount of colored light that reflects off the paper. The color is actually in the light‖ (DiCosola, 2003). The color properties of inks are consequential to light absorption. The light that is not absorbed will reflect from paper back to our eyes. This is the color that we perceive. Therefore, paper takes an important place affecting the reflection (Yule, 1967).
Color reproduction is considered by some as a copying process in the printing industry. ―Match the original‖ is usually the desire and requirement from the customer.
:::

Ideally, each ink would absorb one third of the visible spectrum and reflect the remaining two thirds. However, our pigments are imperfect filters and often absorb and reflect unwanted wavelengths of light. For example, we would prefer cyan to completely absorb red light and reflect all the blue and green light, however cyan ink actually reflects some...

## From Rando TXT File

Process colors should always be single pigmented and transparent. Historically, the process set has been controlled by strength and/or print density. Many printers are now controlling process color with L\*a\*b\* certification out of the ink room to a DeltaE < 1.00. Tolerances are built to provide a balanced set of process colors and repeatable gray balance." - The Perfect Mix Issue May 2012



## From O'Hara

A process color image is created by superimposing four monochrome images, one cyan, one yellow, one magenta, and one black, in exact register to one another (Yule, 1967). Image manipulation/color separation software like Adobe Photoshop® assigns colorant values in whole number increments of 0-100%, which correspond to the dot areas on film, plate and printed substrate. Printing processes such as offset lithography, flexography, screen printing and letterpress are designed to deliver a uniform ink film. To create the illusion of tones, very small dots of varying size are printed. If the dots are small enough, the eye will not discern the individual dots, and instead, perceive continuous tone. Thus, the range of light to dark can only be expressed in 101 levels of gray, from the white of the substrate to the density of a solid print. However, on press, the printed dots invariably “grow” larger than the dots on the plates due to the physics of impression, ink absorption into the substrate, light scattering within the substrate, and other factors. This “dot gain,” or tonal value increase (TVI), is tied to a number of factors, including ink film thickness, image resolution (the halftone screen lpi), substrate, etc., and is a natural part of the printing process. It does, however, reduce the tonal range that the printing system can reproduce. For instance, if a 1% dot for a given printing system prints as a 7%, then the highlight range has been reduced by six levels. If the 95% dot fills in to a solid, then the shadow range has been reduced by 5 levels, and instead of 101 gray levels, there are only 90. Having more tones allows one to reproduce more detail in terms of shape and form, so printers who can reduce their dot gain can increase the amount of detail they can hold in the reproduction.

Typically, the greatest possible density is desirable as long as the TVI does not become excessive, which is a matter of optimizing the ink film thickness (Field, 1999). For a given ink and pigment load, thinner ink films reduce TVI but create less density, so the dynamic range of the image is decreased. Thicker ink films have greater density, but excessively thick ink films increase the TVI to the point that the tonal range is reduced. An optimized ink film offers the widest dynamic range in terms of the greatest density possible while still maintaining the greatest amount of discrete steps between tones. In terms of creating colors through process color printing, this balance between density and detail will allow for the greatest extremes of the gamut perimeter (chroma and lightness) while still maintaining the greatest number of discrete colors within that perimeter. Print contrast, which is a quantitative measure of how much shadow detail is being maintained in the print, is a critical metric for optimizing the tonal range.

Print contrast is determined through the following formula:


$$\begin{array}{c}

\nabla \times \vec{\mathbf{B}} -\, \frac1c\, \frac{\partial\vec{\mathbf{E}}}{\partial t} &
= \frac{4\pi}{c}\vec{\mathbf{j}}    \nabla \cdot \vec{\mathbf{E}} & = 4 \pi \rho \\

\nabla \times \vec{\mathbf{E}}\, +\, \frac1c\, \frac{\partial\vec{\mathbf{B}}}{\partial t} & = \vec{\mathbf{0}} \\

\nabla \cdot \vec{\mathbf{B}} & = 0

\end{array}$$

As density rises through an increase of ink film thickness, the print contrast initially rises as the dynamic range of the print increases. At a certain point, however, the print  contrast peaks and begins to decline with increasing ink fdm thickness as the TVI becomes excessive to the point that the shadows fill in and tones become compressed. The point of maximum print contrast indicates the appropriate ink film thickness for a given substrate and print resolution.

Once the ink film thickness has been optimized, one can determine the TVI of the printing system by printing tint scales and subtracting the input dot area from the printed dot area. This relationship between input and output is termed linearization. Once the system is linearized, it can be calibrated to a specified amount of TVI. In traditional photomechanical reproductions, this calibration is achieved through compensation curves (Yule, 1967). Compensation curves allow the printer to “cut back” the file so that the dot percentage of the image is replaced with a dot percentage that will “grow” upon being printed to the desired tone. For instance, if one wishes to print a 50% tone, one could place a 34% dot in the file knowing that the TVI of the printing system will transform the 34% to a 50% dot. The ability to compensate for TVI is limited by the size of the smallest dot that can be held on the plate (Yule, 1967). The smallest dot establishes the limit of the highlight reproduction.

There are two kinds of optimization involved in printing images: printing system optimization and image optimization. The optimization of the printing system is a matter of establishing the materials and conditions that yield the greatest tonal range. For offset lithography, this includes choice of substrate, impression, water/ink balance, blanket durometer, ink tack, and more. For flexography, issues include substrate, ink viscosity and pH, impression, plate durometer, sticky back, plate material, and more. Optimization of the image involves distributing the tonal range of the original into the reduced tonal range of the printing system. The 256 gray levels of a digital image are to be reproduced with the 101 (ideal) to 90 (practical) gray levels of the printing system. Necessarily, some detail will be lost, but one can manipulate how the tonal range will be distributed within the reproduction. In this way, one can place emphasis in the highlights, midtones or shadows as needed to suit the aesthetics of the image (Southworth, 1979). Obviously, the more successful one is at optimizing the printing system for a wide tonal range, the more opportunity exists to optimize the image reproduction through a wider latitude of tones.

Characterization involves quantifying the color reproduction of the printing system. The color is determined by the spectral qualities of the ink, the amount of ink present (as determined by dot area—the pigment load and ink film thickness will have already been established before characterizing) and the interaction between the inks (trapping) and the substrate (printability). Color perception occurs as the eye is stimulated by the light reflected from the substrate as filtered through the inks. How much light is filtered through the inks depends on the dot areas of each printer, the print sequence and ink trapping, the printability of the substrate (ink holdout, surface smoothness) and the brightness/whiteness of the substrate. A profile must account for the TVI of the system as well as the colorimetric properties of the substrate and the inks (solo and in combination) (Samworth, 2003). This research investigated whether or not TVI is best addressed by the profile, or if it should be compensated for before the profile is made. The profile is used to assign colorant values as input to the printing system in order to achieve the desired output (color). A common analogy for the characterization is that it is a “snapshot” of the printing system—if the characterization is a photograph, then distributing the tones through a compensation curve yields a more optimized image (in this case, the colorimetric sampling achieved by printing the characterization target).

Compensation curves have been an essential part of photomechanical printing. A compensation curve does not create more tones; it changes the input values in order to achieve a more uniform distribution of printed tones. In a photomechanical workflow, the imagesetter is calibrated to create an even progression of tones from 0-100%. When the plate is imaged and the tones are printed, the straight line of the tones on film is transformed via the press TVI to a curve that has a steep rise in the highlights and flat tone range in the shadows. Thus the input values that would comprise the first 25% of the tonal range actually print tones up to 40%. Translating from an 8-bit digital file, 64 of the total 256 gray levels (25%) are being conveyed by 40% of the printed dots. Similarly, if the 50% gains to a 67% dot, 128 gray levels are being conveyed by the first 67% of the printed dots, leaving 128 gray levels representing the shadow end of the image for the remaining 33% of the dots. This relationship is shown in Figure 5, Gray Levels and Tone Reproduction. The compensation curve pulls the straight line of the film/plate down such that the film/plate has a tonal range compressed in the highlights, and the TVI of the system brings that tone range up to a more uniform distribution.