# Flexography

Flexography is a rotary relief printing process and is essentially a modern version of letterpress. Flexographic printing utilizes rubber or photopolymer printing plates and fluid inks or dyes for printing on a wide variety of substrates, including flexible films, tags, labels, shrink sleeves, fabrics, paper, paperboard, and corrugate (Crouch, 1998)The flexographic printing process has evolved from being considered a crude and primitive analog printing process to being “the fastest growing global analog print method” a name given by the Print Industry Market Information & Research Organization in 2010. (Moran, 2011) 

The versatility of flexographic printing makes it a prime candidate for printing on the wide range of substrates used in the packaging industry. Package printing represents 92% of the flexography’s global volume, which amounts to 75% of the $440 billion printed packaging market (F.T.A., 2013)Flexography’s packaging market segmentation includes flexible packaging, paper sack and multiwall bags, corrugated, tag & label, and folding carton printing. (F.T.A., 2013)

Flexographic printing was originally known as “aniline printing,” it’s name was derived from the aniline dyes extracted from coal tar. However, in the 1930’s, the Food and Drug Administration declared the dyes toxic. The bad connotations associated with the dyes lead to the change in name of the process from aniline printing to flexographic printing in 1952 (Crouch, 1998). Since 1990, advancements in printing presses, plate and imaging technology, and inks have allowed the process to rival offset and gravure in quality (Kipphan, 2001)

Current trends in flexography are driven by the goal to reduce waste, changeover times, and increase cost savings. Advancements in all of the components of the process have attributed to its success. Servo technology in presses have allowed for significant reduction in waste through enhanced tension control and improved registration. Ink formulations with higher color strength allow for higher resolution images. There is also a trend, especially in the narrow web market, to move towards UV curable inks, which do not require cleanups between shifts, allow for less press-side adjustments, rapid drying times, and low VOC emissions (Katz, 2009).  The technology for engraving anilox rolls have allowed for higher line counts with deeper cells and smoother cell walls. Computer to plate (CTP) technology allows for higher print resolutions and advanced screening technology. Plate processing techniques are moving towards environmentally friendly thermal processing and water washed flexo plates (Katz, 2009).

The application of a fixed ink set, specifically expanded color gamut printing, is another trend in the flexographic printing industry. Traditionally, package printing requires spot colors in addition to 4-color process to achieve consistency and color stability of brand colors. However, this approach to package printing requires changes in press tooling and washouts between jobs, reducing production times and profit margins. Expanded color gamut printing increases the number of reproducible colors through the addition of one or more inks to the conventional process colors. This approach to reproducing brand colors takes away much of the overhead of spot color printing.