# Comparisons

The python script output an Excel spreadsheet with all of the color differences calculated. The ΔE calculations were put into SAS 9.1 statistical analysis software. Samples only requiring two hue components were tested as a t-test paired comparison to determine whether the differences between the two groups were large enough to be statistically different. The samples requiring three components for each color build were tested by partitioning the total variation in the data into variation due to differences between the components (ink sets) and variation due to error. The variation due to error refers to natural variation within the group. Because this test consists of analyzing the variance in the data, it is referred to as an analysis of variance (ANOVA). The idea behind this test is to ensure that the variations between the groups are large relative to the error variation. This would mean that the groups are likely to be different or statistically significant.

Each hypothesis was tested using a α=0.05 with a 95% confidence interval. The ΔE values from each slice of the gamut were tested separately and each component was tested separately. The components were identified as common, alternative, and graying. For example, Pantone 107 (Figure 10) was built with both the four-color ink set and the seven-color ink set. The common component between the two builds was Yellow. Therefore, the ΔE of each sample when the yellow was over-impressed will be compared to each other to see whether the difference was greater for the four-color build compared to the ΔE in the seven-color build. Another comparison will be made with the alternative components. In this example, the color difference when over-impressing the Magenta separation in the four-color build will be compared to the color difference of over-impressing the Orange separation in the seven-color build. Fifty samples from each “slice” of the gamut were put through a paired or dependent samples comparison test.

Before comparing the effects of the common component and the alternative component, we evaluated the difference between the four-color gray components. In order to see how much of the color stability is related to the black printer, both gray component techniques were tested. A randomized block design test was used to group similar color build logics. If build logics were placed in the same group, there was not statistically significant data between the build logics. For example, the SAS output (Figure 11) places each build logic tested in a separate group.

This was not the case with every slice of the gamut. In most cases, the seven-color was grouped with the four- color Maximum GCR and the four-color no GCR was placed in its own group. This means that utilizing gray component replacement resulted in a more stable spot color reproduction. However, there was not a significant difference when comparing four-color Max GCR to seven-color. This could be due to the fact that the seven-color inks are very high in chroma. Since the gray component is used to bring the color build to a more neutral or darker color, the higher chroma can be attributed to the larger shift in color. All of the average ΔE values for gray components are displayed in Table 2 (below). Columns divided with a black line are used to denote a separate grouping or statistical significance. The colored squares indicate what the gray component was for those color builds.

Table 2. Average ΔE2000 values of press variations in graying components.
> WHERE IS IT?

The rest of the results will only analyze four-color with Maximum GCR and 7-color builds. With a 95% confidence interval and an α=0.05, any p-value < .0001 would result in rejecting the null hypothesis. In every instance of two-component builds there was a significant difference between the four-color and seven-color builds for both the common and alternative components. An example of the SAS output can be seen in Figure 12. This is also the case for three-component builds; both the common and alternative component were grouped separately from each other.

Figure 12. Example SAS output for two-component builds in the Cyan to Green portion of the gamut.

Table 3. Average ΔE2000 values of press variations in common components. Colored square denotes the component over- impressed on press for those particular builds.
> WHERE IS IT?

Table 3 shows the average ΔE2000 of all of the samples in each of the portions of that gamut for the common component. For example, 100 Pantone colors were selected as samples between the Violet hue and the Cyan hue (V-C rows)—50 were two-component builds and 50 were three- component builds. In the two- component build chart the average ΔE2000 of those 50 samples for four-color inks was 3.12 ΔE2000, where the average for the seven-color build was 2.40 ΔE2000. We had similar results with the other 50 three- component builds within this section of the gamut.